Add doc for migration with binlog event filter and pt ghost (#7323)
pingcap/docs: data-migration/migrate-with-pt-ghost.md

---
title: Continuous Replication from Databases that Use gh-ost or pt-osc
summary: Learn how to use DM to replicate incremental data from databases that use online DDL tools gh-ost or pt-osc
---

# Continuous Replication from Databases that Use gh-ost or pt-osc

In production scenarios, table locking during DDL execution can block the reads from or writes to the database to a certain extent. Therefore, online DDL tools are often used to execute DDLs to minimize the impact on reads and writes. Common DDL tools are [gh-ost](https://github.com/github/gh-ost) and [pt-osc](https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-toolkit/3.0/pt-online-schema-change.html).

> After migrating data from MySQL to TiDB by using DM, you can enbale `online-ddl` to allow collaboration of DM and gh-ost or pt-osc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using DM to migrate data from MySQL to TiDB, you can enbale `online-ddl` to allow collaboration of DM and gh-ost or pt-osc.
```

not after

For the detailed replication instruction, refer to the following documents by scenarios:

- [Migrate MySQL Data of Less Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md)
- [Migrate MySQL Data of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md)

> - [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Less Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-shared-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md)
> - [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-shared-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of Less Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-less-tb.md)
- [Migrate and Merge MySQL Shards of More Than 1 TiB to TiDB](/data-migration/migrate-sharding-mysql-tidb-above-tb.md)
```

## Enable online-ddl on DM

> When configuring the task configuration file of DM, set the global parameter `online-ddl` to `true`, as shown below:

Author: ```suggestion
In the task configuration file of DM, set the global parameter `online-ddl` to `true`, as shown below:
```

```yaml
# ----------- Global configuration -----------
## ********* Basic configuration *********
name: test                      # The name of the task. Should be globally unique.
task-mode: all                  # The task mode. Can be set to `full`, `incremental`, or `all`.
shard-mode: "pessimistic"       # The shard merge mode. Optional modes are `pessimistic` and `optimistic`. The `pessimistic` mode is used by default. After understanding the principles and restrictions of the "optimistic" mode, you can set it to the "optimistic" mode.
meta-schema: "dm_meta"          # The downstream database that stores the `meta` information.

> online-ddl: true                # Enable online-ddl support on DM to support automatic processing of "gh-ost" and "pt" for the upstream database.

Author: ```suggestion
online-ddl: true                # Enable online-ddl support on DM to support automatic processing of "gh-ost" and "pt-osc" for the upstream database.
```

```

## Workflow after enabling online-ddl

After online-ddl is enabled on DM, the DDL statements generated by DM replicating gh-ost or pt-osc will change.

The workflow of gh-ost or pt-osc:

- Create a ghost table according to the table schema of the DDL real table.

- Apply DDLs on the ghost table.

- Replicate the data of the DDL real table to the ghost table.

- After the data are consistent between the two tables, use the rename statement to replace the real table with the ghost table.

The workflow of DM:

- Skip creating the ghost table downstream.

- Record DDLs applied to the ghost table.

- Replicate data only from the ghost table.

> - Apply DDLs downstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apply DDLs recorded downstream.
```

![dm-online-ddl](/media/dm/dm-online-ddl.png)

The change in the workflow brings the following advantages:

- The downstream TiDB does not need to create and replicate the ghost table, saving the storage space and network transmission overhead.

- When you migrate and merge data from sharded tables, the RENAME operation is ignored for each sharded ghost table to ensure the correctness of the replication.

> 

Reviewer 2: Some documents are missing:
```
如果您想深入了解其实现原理，请阅读以下两篇技术博客：

- [DM 源码阅读系列文章（八）Online Schema Change 迁移支持](https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/dm-source-code-reading-8/#dm-源码阅读系列文章八online-schema-change-迁移支持)
- [TiDB Online Schema Change 原理](https://pingcap.com/zh/blog/tidb-source-code-reading-17)
```

Author: > Some documents are missing:
> 
> ```
> 如果您想深入了解其实现原理，请阅读以下两篇技术博客：
> 
> - [DM 源码阅读系列文章（八）Online Schema Change 迁移支持](https://pingcap.com/blog-cn/dm-source-code-reading-8/#dm-源码阅读系列文章八online-schema-change-迁移支持)
> - [TiDB Online Schema Change 原理](https://pingcap.com/zh/blog/tidb-source-code-reading-17)
> ```

Sharp eyes!
We have no English version of these blogs and I have confirmed with Zhaoyang about it. He suggested we keep the links in Chinese but remove them from the English version. Do you have any other suggestions?

Reviewer 2: > He suggested we keep the links in Chinese but remove them from the English version.
SGTM
